AI content updates (#17994)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: public/content/ai-agents/l2s/index.md

---
title: Layer 2 networks for AI agents
description: Choosing the right Ethereum layer 2 for AI agent workloads, comparing specialized execution environments, ecosystem tooling, finality, and agent infrastructure availability
lang: en
template: ai-agents
emoji: ":chains:"
sidebarDepth: 2
image: /images/ai-agents/hero-image.png
alt: Layer 2 networks for AI agents on Ethereum

> summaryPoint1: Evaluate L2s by execution environment, agent tooling ecosystem, finality, and trust assumptions

Reviewer: Tightened "execution environment" to "execution" and "trust assumptions" to "trust".

```suggestion
summaryPoint1: Evaluate L2s by execution, tooling, finality, and trust
```

> summaryPoint1: Evaluate L2s by execution environment, agent tooling ecosystem, finality, and trust assumptions

Reviewer: Tightened "execution environment" to "execution" and "trust assumptions" to "trust".

```suggestion
summaryPoint1: Evaluate L2s by execution, tooling, finality, and trust
```

> summaryPoint2: Match your agent workload type to the right L2 architecture for high-frequency, privacy-sensitive, or cross-chain operations

Reviewer: Dropped the workload examples ("high-frequency, privacy-sensitive, cross-chain") — the page body is the right place for those.

```suggestion
summaryPoint2: Match agent workload to the right L2 architecture
```

> summaryPoint2: Match your agent workload type to the right L2 architecture for high-frequency, privacy-sensitive, or cross-chain operations

Reviewer: Dropped the workload examples ("high-frequency, privacy-sensitive, cross-chain") — the page body is the right place for those.

```suggestion
summaryPoint2: Match agent workload to the right L2 architecture
```

> summaryPoint3: Deploy on optimistic or ZK rollups with the same smart account and session key patterns used on Mainnet

Reviewer: Dropped "smart account and session key" since this is the L2s page in a hub already centered on those patterns.

```suggestion
summaryPoint3: Same patterns work on optimistic and ZK rollups
```

> summaryPoint3: Deploy on optimistic or ZK rollups with the same smart account and session key patterns used on Mainnet

Reviewer: Dropped "smart account and session key" since this is the L2s page in a hub already centered on those patterns.

```suggestion
summaryPoint3: Same patterns work on optimistic and ZK rollups
```

- L2s with TEE-based transaction ordering sequence by arrival time, not gas price. On those networks, paying a priority fee above the base fee is wasted.

### ZK rollups {#zk-rollups}

ZK rollups may require **specific compiler tooling** and have minor EVM compatibility differences. Before deploying an agent on a ZK rollup:

- Check whether the L2 requires a custom Solidity compiler (for example, `zksolc`)
- Verify that any opcodes your contracts use are supported — some ZK rollups do not implement `EXTCODECOPY` or have different gas schedules for certain operations
- Note that some ZK rollups have **native account abstraction** built into the protocol, which means standard ERC-4337 patterns may differ slightly. See [AI agents: Wallets](/ai-agents/wallets/) for how these differences affect key management and session key design.

### Finding RPC endpoints and chain IDs {#rpc-endpoints}

Each L2 publishes its own RPC endpoints, chain IDs, and block explorer URLs in its official documentation. [Chainlist](https://chainlist.org) provides a searchable directory of all EVM-compatible networks with one-click wallet configuration.

> <Alert variant="info" className="my-8">

Reviewer: This is direct production-reliability guidance: "use a dedicated RPC provider rather than public endpoints. Public RPCs have rate limits and offer no uptime guarantees." Readers shipping to mainnet will hit rate-limit failures if they skip it. Yellow.

```suggestion
<Alert variant="warning" className="my-8">
```
